---
layout: post
title:  "Designing asynchronous logic gates using behavioural concepts: An introduction"
date:   2015-09-10 11:35:00 +0000
categories: concepts
---

Hello, and welcome to a series describing some of the more simple ideas
of my PhD research, based on designing asynchronous circuits using
*concepts*, an abstract language used to describe behaviours of
specifications at signal, gate and protocol levels.

Simply put, concepts
are a textual form of describing relationships between signal
transitions in a system.  They are *compositional* and thus, several
concepts can be composed to produce a new concept, which can then be
composed with other concepts and so on.

Concepts can be used to describe
smaller aspects of a system, such as *causal relationships*, *initial
states* and *quiescent transitions*. However, due to their
compositionality, they can be composed, and then used to describe *logic
gates* or *protocols* and the transitions which occur within these. This
removes the need to describe the signal interactions of gates and
protocols, which can be lengthy, and a gate or protocol can simply be
referred to by it's name and the signals it uses.

This series will be
used to discuss the design of logic gates using concepts.  Concepts are
described using various operators which have been defined in a Haskell
program, which serves as the backend for this method.  Any operators we
meet in during this series will be described.

A tool to translate concepts to STGs is available from <https://github.com/tuura/concepts>.
This uses an algorithm to translate concepts, which will be explained in this
series of posts. Instruction on how to use the tool and examples of concept
specifications can be found here. All concepts displayed in this series is
can be used with the tool, and are directly translatable to an STG. Note that
in this series, we use `a+` and `a-` for better readability and closer
correspondence with STGs. In Haskell we cannot have postfix operators `a+` and
`a-`, and therefore the rising and falling transitions are denoted by `rise a`
and `fall a` instead.

A graphical front end,
[Workcraft](http://www.workcraft.org/), is used for
viewing *Signal Transition Graphs* (STGs) translated from concepts using
the concepts tool, which is integrated to Workcraft, along with many other
tools which work with STG specifications in order to verify and synthesize,
such as *Petrify* and *Mpsat*.

The following
posts in this series will begin by describing some simple gates,
explaining how concepts are used to describe them. Then, how these
are translated to produce an STG will be explained. Some other basic
ideas of concepts and the translation process will also be explained, for
example, how initial states are applied.

Following the basics, some more complex gates will be
described, as well as how to make the descriptions of these gates
simpler. This will all start with the following post: [***Concepts I: A
buffer***]({{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/concepts/2015/09/30/buffer.html).
